This is what it's like every week now.
I just try and figure out what the hell Brent is talking about.
Welcome to A.B.
Testing podcast, your modern testing podcast.
Your hosts, Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through topics on testing,
leadership, agile and anything else that comes to mind.
Now on with the show.
Hey, everyone.
I'll leave you.
Hey, you were talking to people out there.
Yeah, I don't know who I'm talking to.
I'm talking to you. I'm Alan.
I'm here with Brent and we have a guest, a guest of Brent.
Brent, introduce your guest.
Introduce our guest.
We have a fantastic guest today.
To be determined.
No, just kidding.
He's going to hang up on it.
You are going both ways.
That's good.
I will say there's this old phrase where it says,
never meet your heroes because they will always let you down.
Al Shalloway joins us today.
He has been a hero of mine for a very long time.
And it's interesting because our topic today is going to be about agile
and particularly around safe.
Cue Alan's mailbag jingle.
Mailbag.
It's where actually, so I've been following Al for a long time.
It doesn't work for the podcast, but I have in my hand one of the most important books in my library.
Design Patterns Explained.
Hey, you need to get the second edition.
It's much better than the first one.
And you know, it's funny.
It's even signed by Al Shalloway and it says you need to get the second edition.
Okay, so don't buy it.
Brent, I'm going to buy a copy, sign it, and I'm going to send it to your next time we meet
because you do need the second edition.
The second edition, I talk about how patterns can be used in an agile environment.
I was just figuring that out when I wrote the first edition.
I think I'm going to wait for the third edition.
But if you want what the equivalent of the third edition is, follow Scott Bain.
Unfortunately, he doesn't write, he just teaches.
But Scott Bain, David Bernstein, oh, maybe look at David Bernstein's book,
who worked with me for a while.
He's very smart, very good trainer.
And he's got a book, I forget the title of it.
And it's been influenced by my work, but David's really good.
Well, we'll see about whether or not there'll be a third edition after.
I don't know, you might inspire me.
After I'm done talking with you.
Yeah, I already know what the third edition is going to be about.
And it's going to be very similar to some of the other discussions we're having now.
So, design patterns explained.
I was thinking about this today.
So, we weren't intending to have a discussion around design patterns.
But I was thinking about this today around lost arts that should be brought back.
And I was thinking, so the three of you.
The three are three listeners?
The three of you.
And sadly, I'm counting, I'm looking at the three cameras I'm seeing.
Of course, one of those three is in fact, me.
This is what it's like every week now.
I just try and figure out what the hell Brent is talking about.
Oh, I knew what he was saying right from the beginning.
Outnumbered here.
What am I going to do?
Yeah, it's so the other thing I'll say about Al is if for some reason I ever need to get a replacement
for an A in A-B testing, I know exactly who it will be.
Brent's making himself laugh.
Unfortunately, the most relevant B, I think in the industry for Alan there is
not someone you would really work with.
It could be the ABB podcast.
I can bring them both on.
Anyway, move on to more relevant topics.
Moving on.
And I would like to point out that we have a topic.
We do.
I just don't know what it is yet.
Oh my God, shut up.
So Al, I should have warned you about beforehand.
Like one of the feedback about our podcast is it sounds like two guys bullshitting over beer.
And that's kind of the theme and you should just join into the party.
I think you did warn me about that, by the way.
Okay.
I'll be quiet.
So I'm thinking about Lost Arts.
And one of the things I was thinking about is it was the last time I've had a cogent
context sensitive conversation around design patterns.
And it's been a long time.
Well, you know, we should get together and bring Scott Bainen and maybe have David on a Zoom
and Jim Trott, maybe do it as a Zoom.
Although four of those people are in the area here and you'd get a very cogent one.
Because I have them every now and then, but there are only a few people.
I hate to say it this way.
I mean, when I say a few, I don't mean five, but I mean from a percentage point of view,
not that many people truly understand patterns.
So it's hard to get a true cogent conversation because people think the important part of
patterns is they are solutions to recurring problems in a context.
And that's the least valuable aspect of them, although it's very, very valuable.
Well, so let's sort of segue into the primary topic that given that.
I can bring this into actually, because I've given it some fun.
Because I think actually, my view, the main problem with patterns is because they're meta,
right?
And meta kind of merges into system thinking.
And people have struggled, I think, with sort of system thinking.
Now, the primary reason we asked Al on today, and much like the three listeners we have,
are aware we're going to probably go all over the place.
But we had a mailbag question around, it was from already one of the active listeners on
the Slack channel.
Where's your question?
She asked, Brent, you've mentioned that you find safe, not as bad as everyone thinks.
I would be interesting to know how you make the most of it.
And what are the things to be aware of?
Thanks.
Right now, one of the things, and I believe this to be true.
So I was the first Microsofty to get certified and safe.
And Al actually was at this, I think you got certified at the same time I did, right?
No, I was certified.
I never took a training to be certified, or I might have taken a training.
Oh, I was actually certified before I took the training.
The agreement, though, by Dean was that I would take the workshop.
The reason Dean made an exception for me is prior to the launch of safe,
he and myself and Alan Cheddlewada, our president at NetObjectives, the three of us
had done probably half of the successful agile adoptions that had taken place in the 2000s,
like up until about 2010 or 11.
And we decided to partner together.
So he knew I knew a lot about agile at scale.
So what happened is he kind of said, okay, you're SPC, you have to take the exam later.
And I was the first SPCT trainer outside of SAI, again, somewhat given special dispensation,
because he knew I knew how to do at scale.
And what's interesting is one of the first safe adoptions I did was at Northwestern Mutual.
I can mention this because they had us do a case study there and all that.
But I never have done safe the way safe says to do safe.
In fact, they were always giving me a hassle about it, where I said,
well, this is how I'm doing this implementation.
They say, well, that's not how we like to do it.
And I'd get into a 15-minute conversation with no progress made until I would finally say,
well, are you telling me I have to do something that's not in the best interest of the customer?
And to their credit, they would always stop arguing with me then
about what I was wanting to do.
And then I would do what I want.
And I added a lot of things to safe.
And I didn't do it all in all the way, like they talked about.
I prepared people properly.
I knew how to talk to management.
But I never really did what I totally wanted to do,
because there's a lot missing in safe.
And that's eventually why I left, is I couldn't get them to put what's missing.
And I couldn't get them to change what's really kind of archaic and structured badly.
And so eventually, I left after three or four years of using a variant of it.
So people?
Yeah.
So on that, like, so what?
So I am a fan of many of the techniques that safe brings in.
Like the planning event, I just think is absolutely wonderful.
I love that whole process.
But the primary feedback I hear from people or the opponents of safe
is it's just far too complex, right?
There's far too many pieces.
It's far too many things to understand.
And from my own personal training of people to shift to like a Kanban, right?
I end up getting that same sort of feedback when I'm just trying to introduce people to Kanban.
Which I think is actually relatively easy to understand, right?
Versus something that's so very prescriptive, like scrum.
So I'll just yield to you.
But what do you think is the real positive and the negative of safe?
So let me ask you this, because I tend to talk too much, as I think you know.
But if you give me five minutes of just kind of creating a background,
I think I can tie design patterns, timeless way of building,
and the mindset of safe, and then how you do that and explain what's good and what's bad.
So do I have kind of five minutes to do that?
Yes.
Okay, so let me, Chris Alexander, one of the most impactful books I've ever read is by Chris
Alexander, wrote Timeless Way of Building.
Now, a lot of people say you need to read a pattern language.
And that's a good book too.
But Timeless Way of Building is the real thought process underneath all of his work.
And then a pattern language is an example of it.
Yeah.
And if you're going to read Timeless Way of Building, I'll make a recommendation.
First of all, get a hard copy.
There is a free PDF you can find somewhere on the web.
But get a hard copy.
There's something about that book.
And I'm a massive Kindle fan.
So I typically always have soft copies.
But the Timeless Way of Building is somehow looking at the pictures,
having it in your hand makes a difference.
And read the italics first, which is just an hour or two.
Read the whole thing.
You'll get the concept, then go back and read it.
At your leisure.
But the really important part of Timeless Way of Building to me
was how you do design.
And he talks about how the way people design normally is you find your pieces
and then you put them together.
And he's talking about this.
And I'm saying to myself, I was reading this like in 94, 95, 96, something like that.
And I remember thinking to myself, yeah, that's how I design.
But then the very next word on the next paragraph says,
but I said, oh crap, he's going to tell me I'm wrong.
And he did.
He said, when you design that way, then the pieces are preformed
and they don't fit in the context of how you're putting things together.
He says it a different way, but that's really what he meant.
And what I realized, and I saw this in practice,
because I was having some troubles solving some problems.
And when I shifted into the way he was saying things,
I realized it's just solved the problem right away.
The idea is you look at the whole and you decompose it
by looking at the relationships between things.
And then those relationships give you like,
and I'll use the business agility as an example.
And a lot of organizations, doesn't have to be this way, but in most it is.
There's a business part and a development part.
I'm not suggesting this is what you want.
I'm just suggesting this is how it is.
And when you decompose, say, well, here's a pattern.
I got a business part and talking to a development part.
What you do is you now have not only decomposed the system
and actually systems thinking tells us we can't decompose the system
except in this case, we're decomposing it with the relationship present.
How does business relate to development?
Because as Russ Aikoff tells us,
systems are more about the relationships between the pieces, not the pieces.
You could get the best parts of the best cars,
put them together, you have a pile of junk.
But if you get all the pieces together working,
it's systems thinking tells us the way the system works together
is the system behavior.
So the key of Alexander's approach is you take the whole
and you don't decompose it into the pieces.
You decompose it into the sets of relationships between the pieces.
Now, when you do this, when you do this, something interesting happens.
How does say business, well, business has like the discovery and product management
and intake and all that.
How does that part relate to the other?
So you keep breaking it down to use as the metaphor of an embryo continuing to split.
So now the question is, well, how can product management talk to development?
Well, there are a lot of issues there.
What's the size of the pieces handing over?
Who's involved?
Are there people on both sides?
How do they work together?
These are like the forces.
He calls all the, they're about a dozen of them in this particular thing.
And what a pattern is, in fact, I've built the discipline Agile Value Stream
consultant workshop is based on this notion.
And thanks to you, Brent, a lot of this happened
because you said break everything down into patterns several years ago.
And I use that I've been meaning to thank you for that, by the way.
So here I get this, thank you publicly.
Thank you for that.
That was a big influence on me.
So now what you have is you have patterns that talk about how to solve this problem.
And there are dozens of ways to solve this problem.
And one of the other patterns, and there is the planning event.
Now, SAFE has a particular way of doing a planning event.
And the planning event has a lot of forces in it.
One is what comes in, what comes out.
There's a social force in the planning event.
One of the coolest things about the SAFE planning event
has nothing to do with planning.
It has to do with the social aspect of everybody getting together and talking to things.
OK.
Now, that being said, I got another couple of minutes,
and then I'll get into specifics on SAFE.
So we've got this different patterns, different number of patterns,
comprising how the whole system works.
And each pattern is a solution to a recurring problem in a context,
which means planning is a solution.
It's a pattern for figuring out what you're going to do over some period of time.
Flow planning would almost be no planning,
just letting something came in first in, first out or by priority.
Or massive planning, like, say, for you have three months,
or the way I like to plan if I'm in a big organization,
is you find those things that need long planning,
but you can run in parallel, short-term planning with a common cadence.
I mean, there are any number of ways of doing these.
All of these are the same pattern.
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Different implementations of the same pattern called planning,
and it's got these different issues I've already mentioned,
the half a dozen of them.
So summing up Alexander, I've got the way to look at the whole system,
breaking it into relationships,
and then the relationship can be a pattern to solve.
And then I've got different ways of implementing it.
Okay, now how does this relate to SAFE?
Well, SAFE, if you're a really large organization,
like a thousand people plus,
it actually attends to some things,
maybe well, maybe not,
but it attends to some things nobody else is attending to.
As Don Reinertson once told me when I asked him about
something like how well this is being done,
I think it was Wade's shortest job first.
And I said, well, how about, well, do you really think they're doing?
This was years ago. They've improved this.
So this is not a judgment by Don.
But I liked what he said.
He said, well, on a scale of one to 10,
maybe there are two, but they're the only ones talking about it.
So they're first.
At least they bring it to consciousness.
And this is what is at least a powerful thing.
SAFE's looking at the whole.
There's power to looking at the whole.
The problem though with SAFE, in my mind,
is they deal with a lot of stuff at the team level
and what they call essential SAFE.
And they don't do that badly except
they do everything at scale, whether you need it or not.
So companies with less than 50 people are using SAFE,
which is absurd because that's like taking out a mallet,
ball peen hammer, so to speak,
to put a nail in the wall.
It's just way more than needed.
But if you need to get teams coordinated,
the question then is how do you coordinate them?
So the common way is people take the teams and combine them.
Well, that goes against Alexander's approach.
We don't take components and put them together
and make a system.
SAFE's method of looking at the whole,
the problem with that is the way they structure it.
So SAFE has some good things,
but they also are missing things
and the structures are on.
Okay, sorry.
This is probably more than five minutes already,
but I am going to wrap it up here.
Frameworks, let's look at frameworks.
And then we can relate to SAFE.
I think there are three aspects to frameworks
that are very important.
One is what is the mindset it's based on?
Like Scrum is based on,
well, we'll create a kind of a framework
within what you figure out what you do,
and you can't change our holding pattern,
our umbrella for you to figure things out.
And then they think it's not prescriptive
because while you fill it in,
except what they ignore is the framework itself
is prescriptive because you got to use
timeboxing and you've got to use cross-functional teams.
Other frameworks have different mindsets.
You know, waterfall isn't the framework,
but it's got a mindset.
Well, so what's the mindset of SAFE?
Well, we're going to put everything in your work.
If it's been useful at one point,
we're going to stick it in.
We don't care how complicated it is.
We've got essential portfolio, different levels.
So mindset is very important.
Then there's structure.
They conflate this.
There's what I call a decision framework.
Like how do you decide what you're going to do?
Well, SAFE and Scrum tell you.
So they have a decision framework,
but it's called Ken Jeff and Dean.
And they've decided what you're going to do.
And then what they teach you is what I call a working framework,
looking for a better name, by the way,
than working framework,
but that's what I'm calling it right now.
Like the Scrum Guide is a working framework,
how they figured out those patterns as,
well, they just figured that out themselves.
But this is what you do.
Now, personally, I think decision frameworks
and working frameworks need to be unconflated.
That word means, in other words,
what I do is I work with a decision framework
and I teach people the decision framework.
And I can have a starting working framework if they want,
because sometimes people, hey, just tell me what to do.
Okay, great.
Here's a starting working framework.
By the way, here's how I got there.
And I teach that.
So if they want to start with the working framework,
they can, but then they can adjust it later
to get a fit for purpose thing they need.
And then the third thing are practices.
Now, the problem is, in our world,
everybody's just looking at the practices.
They're not looking at the mindset.
They're not looking at that there's this conflation
of decision and working frameworks.
So when you look at SAFE, some of the practices are really cool.
But the mindset and the structure is bad.
SAFE starts at the essential SAFE and then builds it up.
And what you really need to do is not work at the levels.
It's not bottom up or top down or both top down and bottom up.
Do you notice how that fits the hierarchy?
That's all hierarchical, the conversation.
Top down management leads, bottom up works.
That's all.
I'm talking hierarchy.
Yep.
If there's one thing we've learned from flow and lean
and theory of constraints,
don't look at the organization's hierarchy.
Look at the value stream.
So all these other methods that are yelling at each other
are missing the point.
They're doing the wrong thing wrong.
Or they say the other person is doing the wrong thing.
But they're both in the wrong space.
So we move from waterfall to agile, as it is now mostly proposed,
where we're trying to do hierarchical structures in a better way
instead of saying, no, we need to focus totally on value streams,
operational value streams, how the customer does things.
So this is where we get things complicated.
Because we're trying to look at an entire organization
in a component part, putting it together,
looking at the hierarchy, we're looking at the wrong thing.
So you can have good practices,
but the whole piece doesn't work that well.
So anyway, that was more than five.
I'm going to go ahead and build on that.
Thank you for that.
And I think you hinted at some of the things
that come into my arguments against SAFE.
And SAFE, for those of you who haven't heard of it,
is scaled agile framework.
I think the E stands for nothing.
You hit on a couple things I want to reiterate.
One is some teams use SAFE when they don't need to use SAFE.
Yeah, absolutely.
And also SAFE isn't the only way you work in a large organization.
When you have a large organization
all working roughly on the same thing,
that's when agile needs to scale.
There are other ways to scale.
For example, we have a team where I work of roughly 500 developers,
but they work on 60 different things that sometimes interact,
but sometimes don't.
They're not shipping a monolith.
So they don't have to scale agile.
They can all just do agile on their own.
The other point you brought up or hinted at,
maybe you did say directly,
is that people get caught up in the framework.
And you said that not the value stream, not the results.
SAFE is one example of that.
There is some good stuff in SAFE.
I think people get off it.
It doesn't work.
People get frustrated because they get caught up
in doing SAFE versus being agile.
And at the same, at a lower scale,
I'm sure you've seen,
because I've seen it a bunch of times
and I know Brent's seen it.
Teams focusing on doing agile,
versus the value stream or adaptive delivery.
They get caught up in doing the stuff.
And Scrum, oh my God, I hate Scrum so much
because it's abuse.
Teams are so focused on doing Scrum
that all they're doing is little mini waterfalls
focused on a bunch of rituals
and they're not getting the value out of them.
They skip the only ones that they like skip retros,
which is like the most viable meeting you can have in there.
So with I hate, I don't say I hate,
that's a hard word.
My arguments against SAFE are similar
to my arguments about teams,
how teams, I'm almost done here, Brent.
I have a little more tangent to do here.
You can have your turn.
Is that teams, they get stuck trying to do the thing
versus delivering software.
And what really, really boils my bones.
So I could write a blog post about why I don't like SAFE
and someone would say, well, you're doing it wrong.
And they'd be absolutely right.
And if I had a dollar for every article on the internet saying,
Agile is a fad and it doesn't work and here's why,
and they describe some horribly implemented version of Agile
that just came right out of someone's butt,
I could retire a freaking billionaire today.
So I tease Brent about SAFE.
And I think the reason is not because SAFE is inherently bad.
I think SAFE is in some situations and done well.
It could work really well.
I think Brent's seen that.
But I also think it gives people a whole bunch of process
to hide behind where they can focus on doing the process
versus actually delivering value to their customers.
And that's my soapbox on the topic for now.
Brent.
Yeah, thank you.
I will say at this point in time,
any Agile system can be abused.
I think you take Agile out of that.
Any system can be abused.
Well, yeah, the note, the like, as Al was talking
and I was thinking through, right, I am a fan of SAFE.
But I realized as he was talking, why?
Because it's not because of the implementations.
The practices within SAFE.
Since I started my Agile journey,
I've kind of viewed SAFE as sort of a grab bag
of successful practices that can be connected, disconnected,
reconnected in a way to help me better accelerate
the achievement of shippable quality products.
Right?
Like, I actually, I no longer actually honestly even view Scrum as Agile,
even though I'm a minority, like the world, I think.
And actually, I'm gonna pause here for a moment.
And Al, you'll remember for sure, but I am 95% positive that Scrum
was around before the Agile Manifesto.
Yeah, it was 95.
So I actually, let me inject something here.
So Scrum came out in 95.
And there's a recurring theme both of you are saying,
but not pointing out and I want to point it out.
And that is the metaphor of the map is not the territory.
So before, there was Agile before the manifesto
for Agile software development.
By the way, there are two very important,
three very important words there.
Manifestos by their nature are a time specific statement
saying we need to change.
And it's absurd to me that 20 years later,
when the opening words are we are discovering new ways,
and 20 years later, we're still using that as the basis is absurd.
Also, it's software development.
No, no, we're more interested in the bigger picture now.
Software development is very narrow focus.
But the map is not the territory.
The manifesto for Agile software development is the map.
The territory is this effectiveness.
They just put some words around it that before it came out,
there were many of us trying to work on this.
Scrum tries to conflate itself with Agile repeatedly.
It's a path.
It's a map to the territory of Agile.
Safe is a map to the territory of Agile,
but safe's a harder one to wield
because it's a bigger territory and a bigger heavy map.
So this conflation is killing Agile.
People, and you mentioned this,
like then they're trying to follow safe.
They're trying to follow Scrum.
And what you have is the Agile community.
Well, what does that even mean?
Because if you've got a whole bunch of maps out there
where people are pretending this is what we're trying to do,
and there's all these assumptions.
One last thing, and then I'll shut up
to let you talk for a minute.
But you said systems can be abused.
That's true.
But you know what?
Systems can also be designed to be abused.
Scrum is designed, not intentionally,
but the design of Scrum leads to the abuse of Scrum.
The design of safe leads to the abuse of safe.
And what you want to look at is,
why do we get these repeated failures,
these patterns of repeated failure?
And a lot of that is because people have ignored
this distinction between there's a way to make decisions
and then there's using decisions.
And Scrum in particular traps you
because it makes some assumption saying
you have to use these methods
or you're not doing Scrum.
That's time-boxing.
People say, oh, we're not prescripted.
Hell, you are.
You have to use time-boxing.
You have to use cross-functional teams.
Not saying those are bad things,
but they don't always apply.
So if systems repeatedly have people misusing them,
you need to, if those people who are proposing proponents
of Scrum and safe and they're being misused,
then they have to be,
take responsibility for why that happens.
I'm not saying blame, but you got to look at,
well, why does it happen?
How can I make it so it doesn't happen?
So given that my loathing of Scrum and my concern
of safe are similar in nature,
and this question for Al, I guess for both of you.
I like what you said.
They're designed whether by intent or not for abuse.
They're also very complex systems, each of them,
relative to just something as simple
as frequent customer delivery at a sustainable pace.
Do you think it's the complexity of those systems
that leads to the abuse,
or is it just because we abuse all systems?
I think people abuse all systems,
but see, they look at the wrong thing.
The question is, what's simple?
Is it simple to understand?
Is it simple to use?
Was it simple to be designed?
There are all these aspects of it.
What Scrum and safe are both based around are practices.
Instead of what makes for effective value stream management.
It's not surprising to me that the Scrum community
has embraced complexity.
Because if you're in a complex system
where you have no hope of ever getting it under control,
then you've basically abdicated your responsibility
for figuring out how to get it under control.
I believe it's possible to make a lot of improvement
in a very understandable way.
Okay, I got a lot of this from,
I was actually working on this for about 15 years
before I read The Choice by Eli Goldratt.
Now, a lot of people have read The Goal,
which is a phenomenal book.
I think The Choice is even better.
Because in The Choice, he says,
yeah, systems look complex.
And if you go into them as if they're complex,
you're going to have problems,
because then you look for complex solutions.
Or actually, I think Scrum isn't complex.
I think it's simplistic.
But it results in complex behavior
because it doesn't deal with the right things.
So what Goldratt talks about is,
how do you look at these systems in a way
where you can see what's going on?
And he's not saying you can
deterministically figure things out.
I mean, nobody's that stupid.
I mean, I've been accused of being a flat-earther
because I get interpreted as I'm saying,
I can look into a system, see what's going on.
Well, shit, I know, excuse my language,
I know that I can't deterministically
figure out what's going on.
But what I do know is that there are many things
that are levers of the system.
And if I can pay attention to those,
I'll get things better.
And the complexity decreases
because I can see the nonsense my teams are causing,
or my customers' teams are causing,
by working overloaded, planning too long,
not having visibility to work,
working on big things.
There are about eight or nine things
you got to really pay attention to.
I call these factors sore effectiveness.
And once you start noticing that,
and you go back to the relationships I mentioned,
what happens is, see, the reason systems are,
the reason complexity hurts us
is because it hides things.
We can't see these relationships.
In a system with 100 things,
with 100 things relating to 100 things,
and one relationship affects another relationship.
So you get, I can't handle this.
I got 100 times factorial,
and each of those affect everything else.
It's easy to get overwhelmed.
But if what you say is, yes,
but some of those are stronger than others,
and I can't see them all,
but if I see the significant ones
and I make an improvement,
like having a gating process for work coming in
so I don't overload teams, managing my cues,
what happens is, I either get improvement,
or I learn about a relationship
I either didn't see
or didn't know how it behaved.
So if what you do is get improvement or learn,
well, learning is an improvement,
because now, again,
my decision framework can improve.
So this working just on practices
without any understanding of the model
is what causes this weird behavior we get.
And that's just inherent in both safe and scrum.
So let me add in a couple of comments,
and then I guess I have a couple of questions for you.
So it's been a couple of years.
So I was doing Agile transformations
within Microsoft several years ago,
and I was doing one or two a quarter.
But most of those were sort of waterfall
to Agile shifts.
Right. And one of the things
that I found was really important over time
is that one of my first slides
is to describe Agile and say,
Agile has nothing to do with speed.
That is not your goal.
Speed is not your goal.
The reason why it's called Agile
is about adaptability.
How do you very quickly respond?
The one of the problems I have,
for example, was scrum.
People say, oh, we use scrum.
I'm like, oh, okay, great.
So when you complete your story,
like, what do you do with the customer feedback?
Oh, we don't we don't have customer feedback.
And I'm like, okay,
you're just using scrum to do mini waterfall.
You're driving me crazy.
Like that. Now, the thing I found also
as I was going through my own personal coaching work,
the thing I found is that Agile itself
really is an advanced topic
because what I find is Agile is a series of principles
that you got to hold true,
but there could be multiple implementations
of those principles.
Right. And then and this is actually
the connection back to design patterns
is that you have to discover
the equivalent of the bridge patterns
for Agile or should use bridge or adapter
or something else in your particular implementation.
And that's not well.
Use the teeter totter pattern.
The teeter totter.
I'm not familiar with the I just I just made it up,
but it's in my head.
And once teams start going through the practice,
then that behavior gets locked in.
And then there's this human aspect around around
resistant to change.
This is why I think retrospectives
are important because that's that's an element
where you encouraging people to be accustomed
and motivated to change with some goal.
Now, I'm going to get to my questions for you, Al.
When we first met, I think you too were kind of like
a primary a primary piece of your business
was sort of waterfall to Agile conversions.
Yeah.
Is that what you're doing now?
Or is it doing or are you doing what I suspect?
Alan invented a term years ago, which he called fragile.
And it stands for effing ridiculous Agile.
But it sounds like you are moving.
You are doing more helping people move from fragile to Agile.
Is that is that accurate?
Well, yeah, it's a piece of it.
So first of all, I had actually for about three hours
given up on Agile, I was ready to just say,
and go on, except I realized that, well,
that's not what I'm up to.
What I'm up to is helping people.
And there are all these people suffering, basically,
at the hands of a lot of consultants
who are selling frameworks that don't work.
So I realized, no, we need to reclaim Agile.
This is also the map is not the territory.
The Agile manifesto for Agile software development
is not the territory.
It's the map.
It was a statement of principles,
a statement of variety things.
The essence of Agile and what I'm trying to help
organizations do.
I work at the organization level mostly
to individual training with a discipline Agile
value stream consultant, which I mostly created.
But I'm really interested in helping organizations
get better regardless of where they are,
regardless of how effective they are now,
whether it's horrible or good.
Mostly the people struggling call me
because if you're good, they've figured out
how to improve almost certainly.
But the thing for me is to how do we get people
to start looking a little more intelligently.
Thinking a bit more critically and be objective oriented
as opposed to following a practice oriented.
And that's where we are right now.
So when there was something that was said,
this practice focus I think is what we have
to get away from.
We have to get what is our intention?
How do we create value?
What are the objectives of the practice?
In other words, if you look at like planning,
see this is how the patterns tie in.
Think of the planning event.
The planning event is an input in safe.
The planning event is a method of doing planning.
But that's a particular solution
to the pattern called planning.
There are way many implementations of it.
And if we recognize that the objectivist
is the objectivist to get where people
know what they're doing,
then you don't have to do that full planning event.
One of the things that makes safe very difficult is,
and I think Alan, you mentioned this,
different people work at different paces.
Different structures are needed.
Not everybody should be in a release train.
If you've got a team of seven people
working on a new product,
like with MVPs trying to discover if it's a new product,
they should not be doing three month planning events.
The fact that safe uses MVPs to do three month planning
just shows you how messed up they are,
because that's an oxymoron in its own sense.
You cannot do three month event.
The idea is thin slices, but it's not this whole thing.
So we need to get back to what we're trying to do
and stop trying to follow things.
And I know this is kind of hard for people,
because people like solutions.
People like to lower the risk.
They want a blueprint.
Okay, so you can give them a blueprint.
So I'm not arguing against giving people a blueprint.
What I'm saying is, it's the way you give them the blueprint.
If you say that this is the blueprint now and forever,
and by the way,
yeah, maybe you want to change it like Scrum does.
Okay, well, don't use Scrum when you get past it.
The Shu Hari BS in my mind.
They say, here's the blueprint, do it a Shu,
follow this for a while, then you'll learn how to transcend it.
But where in Scrum can you transcend it?
In fact, if you do transcend it, you call it the Scrum butter.
Oh, there's Scrum butter, you're not doing Scrum,
and it's a negative kind of attitude about it.
So what you need to do is have this, as I call it,
the working framework.
You need to give them something to start with,
but you also need to give them a way to show how to improve it
as time goes on.
This is the decision framework, working framework I did.
Scrum just gives you the working framework,
and because they don't give you a decision framework,
and because the decision framework is really two people
figuring it out themselves, and in my opinion, mostly can,
their cognitive bias is incredibly forced onto the whole Scrum.
I intentionally did not build Flex,
which is the model that's in the AVSC.
What I have now, I don't even have a name for it,
because I'm not using Flex.
I've gone beyond that.
But I didn't build that myself.
I had a lot of people give me ideas.
Brad, you gave me one of the ideas, a pattern thing.
I got a dozen other people.
Yours happened to be more impactful than most everybody else's.
But yeah, yes, yes, three scores.
But the point is, I would never have gotten to where I was
if I did it myself.
If I said, oh, this is cool.
I'm smart.
I'm going to do this.
No, I mean, I am smart.
But there are a lot of other smart people,
and I have found the only way to break your bias
is either you hit a wall.
So yeah, you can't have tragedy that tends to do bias.
But if you don't want to go through life with tragedy
after tragedy and only learning after tragedy,
talk to other smart people and listen to them.
And I tend to do that.
And that's reflected in my approach.
And I joke.
It was one of my co-creating partners
is a company called Navavi in New Zealand.
And two of the members, there are three guys I work with,
but Aldo and Hori are there.
And the joke, the running joke is,
Aldo is supposed to tell me what I left out
and Hori tells me what I said wrong.
And we joke about it, but I love it.
It's like, oh, I got this self-correcting.
I don't have to try it at a client and mess it up.
They'll tell me before I get out there
that I'm messing with them.
And we don't have that.
We don't have it because we think the solution,
the practices are it.
Like I said, one last thing and I know you want to go.
There's a great quote by Upton Sinclair.
I think it's from the jungle.
It's difficult to get someone to understand something
when their salary depends on them not understanding it.
And this is where Scrum and Safe are killing Agile
because they've now identified,
I'm a Scrum master.
I'm a CST.
And this is my thing.
Well, man, it's hard to go into a place and not do Scrum
because you've been called to do it.
Management's mandating it.
People deny that by the way, but I've done some surveys
and a lot of people are mandating that they do Scrum.
A lot of people are mandating that he's safe.
So you don't have a choice.
You can't get out of it.
And that's causing damage.
That's causing dogma.
So actually, there's a couple of things.
Number one, just very quickly,
because I actually think,
what's your view on the Kanban method
in terms of how it addresses the practices framework
and decision framework?
Because actually, I'll just say,
like the practice of formally adapting
the results in changing how you move forward,
I actually picked up from the Kanban method.
Well, the Kanban method is very useful,
but it's again an example of the map conflating with the territory.
Kanban University.
So I formed, I coformed Lean Kanban University,
which was a predecessor to Kanban University
with David Anderson.
I left some personal reasons,
some also because I believed in Lean as the driver,
not Kanban as the driver.
There are two kinds of Kanban's out there.
One is the Kanban method.
David has spent a lot of time
making it sound like he created Kanban, which he didn't.
I was not in the creation, but four other people held.
There's a, you can Google Dan Vekani,
Secret History of Kanban,
and he tells a very interesting story.
But the Kanban method is a change management approach
using Kanban, which is brilliant.
Kaizen, I've learned a lot from the Kanban method,
but it is not Kanban as a lean approach
using Kanban and Kaizen,
where you can also do big changes.
So what you find is, in the world when you say Kanban,
you got to be clear.
Am I talking Kanban method,
which is a change management system using Kanban,
or is it Kanban, which is a flow system using Kanban,
and there's nothing that says I can't do big changes.
It's not a change management system.
Personally, I like being armed with both.
This is again Kanban, Kanban method
are not the territory of getting flow.
They are practices to be able to do it.
And this continually conflating the decision framework
with the working framework is killing us.
Now, here's one last thing on this.
There's another aspect of this.
When I say the map and the territory,
the territory is what's real,
except we can't ever get to reality.
So it's like science.
Like physicists, they have models.
They're trying to explain physics.
And we know we don't really understand what's going on.
In fact, the more they get into it with string theory
and a bunch of other things,
we learn more and more about there is no reality out there anyway.
That's another metaphysical conversation.
But the point is that aspect of finding reality
is something we know we're never going to get to.
And we are trying.
And it has nothing to do with your opinion or my opinion.
It has nothing to do with your approach or my approach.
It has to do with what is the working aspect of things.
Now, in knowledge work,
examples of this could be my theory
that delays and work full of cost waste.
I'm reflecting.
That's my map of the territory.
I think that's reality.
Now, what do I do with that?
Like these eight or nine things I talked about.
What do I do with that?
Well, I've come up with a decision framework
based on my understanding of knowledge work
to decide what to do.
Now, that's my approach.
It's not the right approach.
It's just Al Shalloway's approach.
You might have a better approach
and you might brand your approach
and I might brand my approach.
But what we want to be honest about
is this isn't the territory of how agile works.
It's our approach to trying to figure out
how to do better.
So when we start thinking about it this way,
we can take the good of scrum or safe.
We can ignore the bad.
We can start learning about how things work
in the middle of it.
And we have a lot more power
and we avoid the dogma.
So anyway, there's a quote I'm going to look up.
So I wanted you guys to talk
and I'll tell you this quote up
from Neil deGrasse Tyson.
It's just brilliant.
Let me jump on that
because in your talking there,
it made me reflect on the way I run stuff.
And I came to insight I didn't realize.
And the first thing is I forgot.
Another reason I don't like safe
and I don't like scrum
is the whole certification scheme
around those things I don't believe in.
But I wonder if we put to my realization,
I wonder if it put too much emphasis
on the map overall.
Because I've realized
while you were talking,
the map is there,
but we ignore it.
So let me tell you a little bit
how my teams work.
I'm talking about planning for three months.
We use a concept on my team
called the P50 estimate derived
from Hubbard's work
on how to estimate anything.
And I found that having a 50% confidence level
in your date
for the thing you're going to deliver
that brings customer value
is a sweet spot between over planning
and taking off
before you know what you're doing.
There's a great quote.
Weeks of coding will save you
hours of planning.
But there's a...
But there's that P50 is that sweet spot
and we end up zeroing in on that over time.
Also then I do not hire project managers
or scrum masters or any of that.
My engineering leads,
every people manager on the team
is responsible for the delivery of their team
and for P50 estimates for their team.
And we have a safe environment,
lowercase safe,
meaning psychological safety
where it's okay to miss dates.
They're accountable for delivery.
I don't care what methodology they use.
I don't give them a map.
They can choose,
they can go try and use a variation of scrum.
They can use textbook scrum.
They can use Kanban.
They can use something they make up.
They can use little mini waterfall,
whatever, as long as they get,
long as they are predictable
and they're bringing value to customers.
And then when we have something complicated,
when there's something that spans
multiple teams,
I use program managers.
We have a small number of those who,
that's their job.
They take the complex hairy things
and make sure they're not complex and hairy.
In a way,
my view on that based on this conversation is
I am for some reason trying to avoid the map
because maybe to me I've realized
the map doesn't matter as much.
Well, the territory is more important than the map,
but you've got to get
that not everybody thinks the way you do, Alan.
So you can hold it in your head
and you're working with a group of teams
and you're present,
but see what I'm trying to do
is something different.
So I'm not disputing what you're doing.
I'm not saying what you're doing is not effective,
but there's a difference
when you're internally consulted
and always present
and you could course correct.
But a lot of people like,
give me an answer,
give me a way to do something
and they will only pay attention to a map.
Yeah, granted it does take a while
to build up an organization.
So if what you do,
so I can deliver like that.
That's what I do,
because I'm in a situation
where I try to go in
and I'm trying to get people
who aren't used to thinking this way.
And I'm not trying to get them
to think the way I think,
because first of all,
that can get you into trouble
for a lot of reasons.
But I mean,
I have a certain style of thinking
and it applies in a lot of places
and it doesn't apply
in a lot of places.
So I mean,
if everybody felt like me,
the world would not be in a better place
in terms of solving technical problems.
But so what we want to do
is recognize the people we talk to
who are needing to hold on to things.
Well, we just need to make
them clear about is the answer
we're giving them is what we know
at the moment is the best way to do things.
And examples are like driving.
What side of the road do you drive on?
Well, in the United States,
on the right side of the road,
isn't even 100%.
You go into places
where there are one lane roads.
I mean, not one way,
one way roads.
You don't always want to be
on the right side of the road.
So we have to remember
what's the objective
and what is the implementation
of the objective.
And that's a pattern, right?
What's the objective?
How do I implement it?
Different ways to solve it.
And what I hate about scrum so much
is they are a self-assumbing
that you don't have to
state the objective here.
Just do this.
It's simple.
Use it as is.
And if you don't, it's your fault.
But when you have the objective
and you have a theory,
then people can learn how.
What's a better way
to solve my problem?
So what you want to do
is recognize I have this working set
of heuristics, I suppose,
or practices
or whatever you want to call them.
And then I need to teach people
that, hey, well, it's fine.
But when it breaks,
don't assume you're at fault.
Maybe it's the practice.
And how do you do an improvement
to the system?
How do you do double loop learning?
Double loop learning is like,
like, you know,
a single loop learning
is like a thermostat.
You want to keep the temperature
between, say, 70 and 74.
If you go above it,
it puts AC on.
You go below it, puts heating on.
But double loop learning
as well as that,
even the right way to do it.
Should I be following this practice?
And maybe there's a better way to do this.
Maybe the thermostat changes
when I leave the house.
If I, you know,
the Google Nest does that.
Maybe I have a controller on my wall
or I have it on my phone.
What's interesting is safe and scrum
don't have double loop learning
on the frameworks themselves.
In other words, they're saying
this is God's answer to your problem.
That's damaging.
That's dogma.
Oh, here's the quote, by the way.
This is from Neil deGrasse Tyson.
The difference between science and religion
is religion can't abide being wrong.
Science seeks to be wrong.
So here's my corollary to that
in the Agile space.
The difference between science
and the way Agile is practiced
is Agile is practiced
can't abide being wrong.
Science seeks to be wrong.
And I was by that, I mean,
I remember once on a public forum,
some I was saying something around scrum
and somebody said,
well, how would you feel like
if your method was challenged?
And I think I think I really spawned
that was a surprise.
The guy said, oh, I would love it.
I want to know what's wrong
with my approach so I can fix it
because I'm trying to find out what works.
I'm not trying to defend
an approach I'm creating.
What are the rules of knowledge work?
I have nothing to say about.
You have nothing to say about.
It's just the way it is.
That is something I want to learn.
And then that's more of us,
all of us talking in a forum
to learn that then what's my brand?
Okay, I've got this thing
I call Amplioza team.
Amplioza is Latin for improvement
and the discipline
Agilivis stream consultant
I did through the PMI.
What's wrong about those approaches?
Well, I want to know
so I can improve the approach I take.
What's wrong about my understanding
of how things work?
Well, I want to understand
how things work
because then I could improve them.
And there's very little,
attempt at learning that last part.
I get attacked for that a lot
when I point out that
a lot of the way things are designed
ignores the reality of the world.
Which is okay, actually,
because I get enough people
who are learning from the attacks.
I'm starting to actually
make another side comment.
There's a book I highly recommend
to anybody who's frustrated
with the way things are.
It's called The Obstacle
is the Way by Ryan Holiday.
He writes about stoicism.
He's also written the ego is the enemy
and the stowaway and stuff like that.
And I've read a couple of his books,
but the obstacle is the way.
Says what's in your way
is the way through it.
And it's not this thing,
this Pollyanna of what doesn't kill
us makes us stronger
or we got to overcome obstacles
because then they give opportunities.
He's really saying the key
is looking at the problem.
And I apply this all the time.
My productivity has gone up.
My innovation has gone up
like an order magnitude
since I read this book.
And I'll give you one quick example.
So I said I was ready
to just chuck it with agile.
And then I thought, no, no.
First of all, two things are going to happen.
One, I'm leaving behind a lot of people
who are having troubles.
Second of all, they're going to
catch up to me anyway.
I mean, things I said 10 years ago,
15 years ago, people are now
have saying it, but they're saying it wrong.
You know, like scrum is based on length.
Well, I never said scrum
was based on length.
But 14 years ago, I said scrum
can be thought of as a
partial implementation only now scrum
and I was thrown off
the scrum development group
for saying that Jeff
and Ken denied it was true.
And now they're saying scrum is linked,
which isn't.
You can't run away from
bastardization of concepts.
People are just going to follow you
and do that.
So I thought about it.
Okay, agile, if the answer is
the obstacles, the way why is it
people are abusing agile
and turning it into fragile?
Why is it that safe gets abused?
Why is it that scrum gets abused
and look at that reason
and use that as how to improve things.
And like I said, I was three hours
of despondent then I said,
okay, I'll get off that
and stop complaining.
And now I'm really thinking about that.
That's what I'm talking about.
Reclaiming agile,
that the way to reclaim agile
is to look at what did agile really mean.
And there's this aspect of learning
what truly is the territory.
And then how do we get that back?
And Alan, I know you think about this.
I can tell from how you're talking
and I know Brent does.
I've known him for a long time.
I haven't met you.
I just met you now.
But what's interesting is
when you listen to how people talk
and you ask yourself
where are they coming from
and saying what they're saying.
See, if somebody says,
well, you're not following scrum
or somebody says, well,
something simple just use it as is.
That's a big statement right there.
Oh, you should be following.
You should be believing something
instead of how do you think for yourself?
And I think what I'm trying to do now
is create a forum in a sense
to be a catalyst for people like ourselves
to see how to move this forward.
I'm not interested in some people
that ask me,
oh, am I going to do some of the stuff
I did before like Lean Systems Society?
I've had two or three things,
True North Society, different thing.
And the answer is no, I'm not.
Because I've never found
the business model for that
and it always peters out after all.
Well, what I am trying to do
is kind of maybe be a beacon
for others and create exposure.
In other words,
I'm not competing with folks like yourself.
I'm like, hey, let's light more candles.
And go after those people
who want to see what are better ways
without the dogman box.
Yeah, I think that's probably
a good thing to end on.
I will say that
Oh, this is awesome.
And thank you for coming to us
in a fantastic conversation.
I got to run, but Al,
it's been a huge pleasure having you here.
Thank you.
Britt, you know,
I understand.
You're all right.
Yeah, good job.
Because I said like three words this time.
Al, thank you very much.
And as just as a closure,
I don't know.
So Al is if anyone wants to reach out to you,
what's how can they do it?
The easiest way is my email.
Al dot shallow way.
S H A L L O W A Y at success
engineering dot works.
W O R K S success engineering.
Just two words.
No, I'll attempt with that.
But for me on LinkedIn,
I think I'm the only Alan shell.
Al shallow way on LinkedIn
and connect with me.
Please connect with me.
I got my contact information there.
That'll work.
And then and then I'm sure we'll get all sorts of people
ready to get third edition of Design Patterns Explained.
Yeah, that ain't happening.
Yeah, I'm preordering my copy today.
All right. See everyone.
Take care.
Bye.